src/content/live/July.md, before:


---
Month: 'August'
OneLiner: 'Finished Spiderman, and redesigning the portfolio'
date: '2025-07-27'
publish: true
---
# Spiderman 2 - The end
Even though I tried to keep myself engaged to the game until I complete, there were many instances where I wanted to move away from the game. 

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/j3f1DRO.jpeg" alt="spiderman 2 end screen">

Sure, the game was interesting and amazing, but for someone who played the Spiderman and the Miles Morales before this, I was getting bored with the usual spiderman shenanigans, may be a bit of oxymoron I guess, What else should I've expected from a spiderman game? But after a while comes THE VENOM, and good lord what an amazing sight it was. The game took an extra leap from the usual spidey stuff and more into Hulk (or Venom) SMA-SH, Loved the novelty.

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/9jdgQyM.jpeg" alt="The venom">

As a sidenote, I should prep notes while Im playing games to write better 🤷.

# Redesigning the portfolio.
Well, this somethign that I come across alot, I've been working on this portfolio since december from the very basic version to this-multi collection, multi faceted, over engineered and over glorified blog. 

It all started from a thought of having a decentralized content platform which would act as a repository for my knowledge and the content I've produced or should produce.

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/RZO8aWa.png" alt="handwritten notes about the structure of the site">

Previously, my site had two versions of documents, Long formatted and short formatted. I also tried to incorporate mastodon to scratch the need for micro blogging but then it didnt serve me quiet well. 

I often have a requirement of writing contents in fragments and then keeping it arranged only for it to later be chopped down and refine further, and hence I thought of building... ["Series"](/series)

I would use this series to write more about how I built this site, and the games that Im currently playing so that it would act as a detailed repo and then we can formulate notes or essays from it to talk about specific instances.

Commit message:

replaced md links with <Link> - script output

src/content/live/July.md, after:


---
Month: 'August'
OneLiner: 'Finished Spiderman, and redesigning the portfolio'
date: '2025-07-27'
publish: true
---

import Link from '../../components/mdxComponents/Link.astro';

# Spiderman 2 - The end
Even though I tried to keep myself engaged to the game until I complete, there were many instances where I wanted to move away from the game. 

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/j3f1DRO.jpeg" alt="spiderman 2 end screen">

Sure, the game was interesting and amazing, but for someone who played the Spiderman and the Miles Morales before this, I was getting bored with the usual spiderman shenanigans, may be a bit of oxymoron I guess, What else should I've expected from a spiderman game? But after a while comes THE VENOM, and good lord what an amazing sight it was. The game took an extra leap from the usual spidey stuff and more into Hulk (or Venom) SMA-SH, Loved the novelty.

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/9jdgQyM.jpeg" alt="The venom">

As a sidenote, I should prep notes while Im playing games to write better 🤷.

# Redesigning the portfolio.
Well, this somethign that I come across alot, I've been working on this portfolio since december from the very basic version to this-multi collection, multi faceted, over engineered and over glorified blog. 

It all started from a thought of having a decentralized content platform which would act as a repository for my knowledge and the content I've produced or should produce.

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/RZO8aWa.png" alt="handwritten notes about the structure of the site">

Previously, my site had two versions of documents, Long formatted and short formatted. I also tried to incorporate mastodon to scratch the need for micro blogging but then it didnt serve me quiet well. 

I often have a requirement of writing contents in fragments and then keeping it arranged only for it to later be chopped down and refine further, and hence I thought of building... <Link href="/series">"Series"</Link>

I would use this series to write more about how I built this site, and the games that Im currently playing so that it would act as a detailed repo and then we can formulate notes or essays from it to talk about specific instances.
