src/content/notes/WhyThisSite.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Why I Built This Site'
description: 'Why I built my own site: reclaiming my words, embracing decentralization, and finding freedom to write again.'
pubDate: 'Sep 20 2024'
updatedDate: 'Sep 20 2024'
heroImage: ''
tags: ['hacktivism','Decentralization']
featured: true
maturity: 'tree'
publish: true
---

I first came across the idea of a decentralized web in 2015, through ~[Mozilla Story 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pzj-h7gzn_c&t=1s)~, while volunteering as a *Firefox Student Ambassador*. That exposure made me rethink how I was using the internet at the time (~[Social Media, an Ally](https://beingrez.blogspot.com/2015/03/social-media-ally.html)~), which eventually led me to ~[quit Facebook](https://beingrez.blogspot.com/2015/11/why-i-quit-facebook.html)~.

At the same time, I was experimenting with my own online spaces. I ran a ~[Blogger site](https://beingrez.blogspot.com/)~ that later evolved into Jekyll and then Hugo. But somewhere along the way, I drifted. Instead of posting casually, I moved to ~[Medium](https://medium.com/@ruwaizrazak)~, where writing started to feel different. It was less about capturing ideas, more about performing for an audience.

Medium rewarded polished entries and my notes turned into essays. I was worried about how people would judge them,  started chasing claps and followers and while Medium is a great platform, that pressure to optimize for attention eventually silenced me.

That silence made me step back and recognize the bigger pattern, mainstream platforms weren’t just hosting my writing, they were shaping it along with what I consumed and even how I thought (~[watch The Social Dilemma](https://www.netflix.com/watch/81254224?source=35)~).
# Why Decentralization Resonates with Me
That realization is what brought me back to the idea of decentralization. For me, it’s not just about technology, it’s about values like openness, community, and freedom.

Platforms like ~[Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/@ruwaizrazak)~ and ~[Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/ruwaizrazak.bsky.social)~ gives me that freedom. My content isn’t locked into one place, and I can connect across the web through systems like the Fediverse and Webmentions. 

Most importantly, these communities build for each other, not for ads. People teach, sustain, and support one another. It might sound cliché, but that spirit really does make the internet and maybe the world, a little better. 

Unlike on centralized platforms, there’s no single gatekeeper telling me what I should or shouldn’t see.
# What’s Happening Now
With those values in mind, I started thinking about how to write again. Since October 2024, I’ve wanted a system that lets me capture ideas casually, while also giving me room to dig deeper when I need to. That search led me to the concept of ~[digital gardens](https://hackernoon.com/what-is-a-digital-garden), a rabbit hole I’ll definitely explore in a future post.

This site is my attempt to bring all of that together. It’s where I can own my words, share them freely, and still connect with others through open standards like Webmentions (which I’m still learning). In short, I want this site to be a node in the wider decentralized web, not just another plant in a walled garden.
# What Could Happen Next
I started building this site in December 2024, and after many iterations it has taken the shape you see now. Going forward, I’ll keep refining the technical side—like figuring out Webmentions—but more importantly, I’ll focus on simply writing again. That’s always been the core idea behind this space.

To give some structure, the site’s content will fall into four areas:
1. **Essays** – long-form, researched, and polished writing.
2.  **Notes** – short, unrefined thoughts that may later grow into essays or series.
3. **Series** – connected writings that explore a topic over multiple posts.
4. **Live** – updates on what’s happening with me right now.

Within these categories, expect to find topics around computers, games, design, and hacktivism.

In the future, I’ll also share the path I took to design and build this site—the concepts, iterations, and tools that shaped it. But for now, the most important step is this one: starting to write again.

Commit message:

replaced md links with <Link> - script output

src/content/notes/WhyThisSite.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Why I Built This Site'
description: 'Why I built my own site: reclaiming my words, embracing decentralization, and finding freedom to write again.'
pubDate: 'Sep 20 2024'
updatedDate: 'Sep 20 2024'
heroImage: ''
tags: ['hacktivism','Decentralization']
featured: true
maturity: 'tree'
publish: true
---
import Link from '../../components/mdxComponents/Link.astro';

I first came across the idea of a decentralized web in 2015, through <Link href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pzj-h7gzn_c&t=1s">(Mozilla Story 2012)</Link>, while volunteering as a *Firefox Student Ambassador*. That exposure made me rethink how I was using the internet at the time (<Link href="https://beingrez.blogspot.com/2015/03/social-media-ally.html">Social Media, an Ally</Link>), which eventually led me to <Link href="https://beingrez.blogspot.com/2015/11/why-i-quit-facebook.html">quit Facebook</Link>.

At the same time, I was experimenting with my own online spaces. I ran a ~<Link href="https://beingrez.blogspot.com/">Blogger site</Link>~ that later evolved into Jekyll and then Hugo. But somewhere along the way, I drifted. Instead of posting casually, I moved to <Link href="https://medium.com/@ruwaizrazak">Medium</Link>, where writing started to feel different. It was less about capturing ideas, more about performing for an audience.

Medium rewarded polished entries and my notes turned into essays. I was worried about how people would judge them,  started chasing claps and followers and while Medium is a great platform, that pressure to optimize for attention eventually silenced me.

That silence made me step back and recognize the bigger pattern, mainstream platforms weren’t just hosting my writing, they were shaping it along with what I consumed and even how I thought (<Link href="https://www.netflix.com/watch/81254224?source=35">watch The Social Dilemma</Link>).

# Why Decentralization Resonates with Me
That realization is what brought me back to the idea of decentralization. For me, it’s not just about technology, it’s about values like openness, community, and freedom.

Platforms like <Link href="https://mastodon.social/@ruwaizrazak">Mastodon</Link> and <Link href="https://bsky.app/profile/ruwaizrazak.bsky.social">Bluesky</Link> gives me that freedom. My content isn’t locked into one place, and I can connect across the web through systems like the Fediverse and Webmentions. 

Most importantly, these communities build for each other, not for ads. People teach, sustain, and support one another. It might sound cliché, but that spirit really does make the internet and maybe the world, a little better. 

Unlike on centralized platforms, there’s no single gatekeeper telling me what I should or shouldn’t see.
# What’s Happening Now
With those values in mind, I started thinking about how to write again. Since October 2024, I’ve wanted a system that lets me capture ideas casually, while also giving me room to dig deeper when I need to. That search led me to the concept of <Link href="https://hackernoon.com/what-is-a-digital-garden">digital gardens</Link>, a rabbit hole I’ll definitely explore in a future post.

This site is my attempt to bring all of that together. It’s where I can own my words, share them freely, and still connect with others through open standards like Webmentions (which I’m still learning). In short, I want this site to be a node in the wider decentralized web, not just another plant in a walled garden.
# What Could Happen Next
I started building this site in December 2024, and after many iterations it has taken the shape you see now. Going forward, I’ll keep refining the technical side—like figuring out Webmentions—but more importantly, I’ll focus on simply writing again. That’s always been the core idea behind this space.

To give some structure, the site’s content will fall into four areas:
1. **Essays** – long-form, researched, and polished writing.
2.  **Notes** – short, unrefined thoughts that may later grow into essays or series.
3. **Series** – connected writings that explore a topic over multiple posts.
4. **Live** – updates on what’s happening with me right now.

Within these categories, expect to find topics around computers, games, design, and hacktivism.

In the future, I’ll also share the path I took to design and build this site—the concepts, iterations, and tools that shaped it. But for now, the most important step is this one: starting to write again.
